MARY [VOICE-OVER]:
Long ago, in the time
of Caesar Augustus,
and in the land of Judah,
ruled by the evil King Herod,
there lived a young woman
named Mary,
who didn't know yet
that she was chosen by God
to fulfill an ancient prophecy
to bring forth a promised king
sent to save the world.
Far away in the East,
there were three kings
of the Order of the Magi,
who knew of this prophecy.
For many years,
these Magi had been searching
for a certain star to appear,
signaling the arrival
of this divine child.
What?
MARY [VOICE-OVER]:
Balthazar was well known
for his ability
to read and chart the stars.
- Gaspar!
- Mommy?
Quickly! Come!
MARY [VOICE-OVER]:
And this Magi, Gaspar,
was easily the greatest scholar
in all the lands.
The juxtaposition
of the celestial alignment
between Cronus and Ares,
both the deferent
and the epicycle model,
show the same zodiacal
positions of the five planets!
Repeat the middle part again,
if you will.
The star.
Just come look at the star!
See for yourself.
Oh.
Oh, goodness.
MARY [VOICE-OVER]:
The moment was finally here.
- Goodness!
- They had to be there
- when it happened.
- This is it!
MARY [VOICE-OVER]:
Oh, yes,
then there was Melchior.
- Melchior!
- He was the map man.
A great navigator.
And, well, he liked to eat--
a lot.
Show us this land called Judah.
Here. Precisely.
Judah.
That's really far.
Are you certain?
Those are King
Herod's lands.
You, don't insult me.
And, you, get me a kebab...
MARY [VOICE-OVER]:
It was time to pack the tent
and assemble the caravan.
As the Magi set out
to find this young mother,
they could only wonder...
What mighty queen was chosen
for this great honor?
Giving birth to the Son of God.
♪ O come, O come ♪
♪ Emmanuel ♪
♪ Shall come to us ♪
♪ O Israel ♪
♪ Come, all you faithful ♪
♪ Joyful, triumphant ♪
♪ O come ♪
♪ To Bethlehem ♪
♪ Sing, choirs of angels ♪
♪ Sing exultations ♪
♪ O come ♪
♪ To Bethlehem ♪
♪ Sing hallelujah ♪
♪ For unto us a ♪
♪ Child is born ♪
♪ Join every nation ♪
♪ In celebration ♪
♪ A child is born ♪
♪ He is come ♪ Come, o come ♪
♪ Emmanuel ♪
♪ He is come. ♪
Every girl I know
helped choose their husband.
Why am I forced to marry
someone I haven't even met?
He just moved here
from Bethlehem.
He is a good man
from a good family.
His name is Joseph.
I'm securing your future, Mary.
But what about my dream
of becoming a teacher,
like my father?
You are fortunate
anyone will have you,
with all your crazy ideas.
Crazy ideas?
You're the reason
I have these crazy ideas.
You put them into my head
by having me
study these Scriptures,
day after day, year after year.
Because I did not have a son
to teach them to.
So now you punish me for it?
You are a girl.
You will be a wife,
not a teacher,
as tradition demands.
As you wish, Father.
Oh, Fig.
This isn't fair.
Mary, can we
talk about this?
I'm going to town, Deborah.
Rebekah,
we're going shopping.
That isn't...
That's not what I said.
She needs to find fabric
for her betrothal gown.
MARY [VOICE-OVER]:
But I don't want
to marry for duty.
I want to marry for love.
Most girls look forward
to marriage.
Love takes time
to grow, Mary.
- Mm-hmm.
- Like a flower.
Your husband
might be handsome,
exciting, wonderful.
He might be a very good dancer.
And if he's none
of those things,
he'll still be my husband.
♪ Mary,
you're getting married ♪
♪ It's about to be
the best day of your life ♪
♪ Scary,
'cause maybe married ♪
♪ Means that I am kissing
all my dreams goodbye ♪
♪ Divine institution,
a holy union ♪
♪ One sure sign
that you are blessed ♪
♪ Or a life sentence ♪
♪ Of daily dependence ♪
♪ Bickering and "Yes, dear"-ing
until death ♪
♪ Mary, Mary,
married is something you do ♪
♪ That's very, very, very,
very good for you ♪
♪ Mary, Mary,
married makes two hearts into ♪
♪ One happy life ♪
♪ Engagement
then the invitations ♪
♪ Ceremony, celebration,
dreams are coming true ♪
♪ Mary, Mary, Mary, Mary,
married is good for you ♪
Married!♪ It's good for you ♪
♪ It's good for you ♪
♪ You ♪BOTH: Married.
♪ So, holy matrimony ♪
♪ Is marrying the wedding,
not the man? ♪
♪ Oh, Mary,
you're so contrary ♪
♪ Love is secondary,
everyone knows that ♪
♪ It's constant attention ♪
- In someone else's direction.
- Hey.
♪ Your husband
will have eyes for only you ♪
♪ It's so romantic ♪
♪ Or just traumatic ♪
♪ Being showered with
so many precious jewels ♪
♪ Mary, Mary,
married is something you do ♪
♪ That's very, very, very,
very good for you ♪
♪ Mary, Mary,
married makes two hearts into ♪
♪ One happy life ♪
♪ Keeping house and making
babies, going shopping ♪
♪ All the daily chores
are all I'll do ♪
♪ Mary, Mary, Mary, Mary,
married is good for you ♪
Married.♪ It's good for you ♪
♪ It's good for you, you ♪
Married!♪ It's good for you ♪
♪ It's good for you ♪
♪ It's not my decision,
but this is tradition ♪
♪ Trusting that my family
knows best ♪
♪ Is this
what I'm chosen for? ♪
♪ I thought
I was meant for more ♪
♪ At least
you'll look so pretty ♪
♪ In your predicament ♪
♪ Mary, Mary,
married is something you do ♪
You sure?♪ That's very, very, very ♪
♪ Very good for you ♪Hope you're right.
♪ Mary, Mary,
married makes two hearts into ♪
♪ One happy life ♪Does it, though?
♪ He may be short,
he may be hairy ♪
♪ Getting fat,
but, Mary, dear ♪
♪ He's chosen just for you ♪
♪ Mary, Mary, Mary, Mary,
married is good for you ♪
Mary!
♪ It's good for you ♪
Maybe.
♪ It's good for you, you ♪
Mary!
♪ It's good for you ♪
♪ You may be nervous,
may be scared ♪
♪ Your head is spinning
everywhere ♪
♪ 'Cause I have to believe ♪
♪ That Mary, Mary, Mary, Mary,
married ♪
♪ Is good for me. ♪
Guess we'll see.
I'm so sorry.
I'm...
You're welcome.
Hmm?
Thank you.
I'm an expert at choosing.
Uh...
Oh-oh,
what I mean is th-that
I-I know how... You choose... fruit?
I have many skills.
Mm-hmm.
That's nice.
Why are you telling this
to a stranger?
I feel like
we're already friends, no?
Apparently,
I'm betrothed,
so I really should
get going now.
Yet here we are.
Goodbye.
Wait, wait.
You haven't picked any fruit.
I-I don't think
you heard what I said.
Choose one.
It'll be my gift
to a beautiful bride.
I don't accept gifts
from strangers.
Strangers.
Aren't we past that?
This one's perfect.
Oh.
Uh, I didn't get your name.
Fig?
Uh, okay.
Whoa.
I hate donkeys.
Welcome back, sire.
Up, up, up, up, up.
There. There.
There.
Father.
Oh. Antipater.
My firstborn.
Returning from, uh...?
Rome.
Rome. So, um...
- What do you want?
- Oh, oh.
Rome has ordered us
to conduct a census.
Oh.
"King Herod, by decree
"at the command of our lord
and emperor, Caesar Augustus,
"a census shall be taken
throughout the Roman Empire.
All citizens shall return
to their ancestral..."
To their blah,
blah, blah, blah.
Rome. You know? Rome.
Rome.
Father, we-we cannot
just ignore Caesar.
A census would
only anger the people.
We hate you, Herod!
You seem to have no problem
angering the people
without Caesar's help.
Wine.
Herod sucks!
- Should I have them removed?
- Oh, no, no, no, no.
They amuse me.
Uh, they are nice people.
Father.
I have concerns that Rome will
hear about this unrest and...
Well, I have concerns
that you don't know
what it means to be a king.
I...A king doesn't need to be loved.
Only obeyed and feared.
I live only to serve my king,
not to be one.
Hello, baby.
Father.
Don't pretend
you don't want to be king.
Everyone
wants this crown.
My crown!
Oh.
Oh, wow.
That sound.
Hatred?
- Misery?
- No, no, no.
Power.
Showtime.
Herod! I hate you!
♪ It's good to be king ♪
♪ And have
the absolute authority ♪
♪ All the attributes
of divinity ♪
♪ I'm a religion ♪
♪ Look how they all
worship me ♪
♪ Don't have to be good ♪SOLDIER: Down!
♪ To be a good king ♪
♪ Just gotta look ♪
♪ Like you've got sympathy ♪
♪ Then keep them rooked
and suffering ♪
♪ To maximize your profiting ♪
♪ Look how the peasants
work down to the bone ♪
♪ As I sit up high
on my velvety throne ♪
♪ Pulling the strings
on the people below ♪
♪ It's so stinking good
to be king ♪
♪ Mine is the kingdom ♪
♪ Mine is the power ♪
♪ Mine is the glory ♪
♪ Forever ♪
♪ More ♪
Kiss the ring, babies.
- Kiss the ring.
- King Herod.
Everybody hates me.
Yeah.
I'm gonna kill him.
Ha ha!
♪ It's good to be king ♪
♪ And be the one who screams,
"Off with his head!" ♪
♪ Or be the one
who's deemed savior instead ♪
♪ It's delicious
to watch a man ♪
♪ Begging for his death ♪
♪ I put in a knife
and then give it a twist ♪
♪ A smile opens up
on my sinister lips ♪
♪ The joy of the crown
is too much to resist ♪
♪ It's so stinking good
to be king ♪
I just love it!
♪ Mine is the kingdom ♪
♪ Mine is the power ♪
♪ Mine is the glory ♪
♪ Forever ♪
♪ More ♪
♪ Forevermore... ♪
♪ So stinking good
to be king. ♪
They're here.
Welcome, Jacob. Welcome.
I am so pleased that we can
share this joyous occasion.
Thank you, Joachim,
for your hospitality.
-  Oh.
- This looks more like a wedding
than a simple
betrothal ceremony.
What better way for our
families to meet than a party?
- Rachel.
- It's Rahel.
It is so nice
to finally meet you.
We are delighted to accept
your daughter into our family.
No, the joy is ours.
We don't feel as if
we are losing a daughter
but gaining a son.
Until now, I have been
severely outnumbered.
And how is Mary feeling
about the betrothal?
Mary? Oh.
She couldn't be happier.
Why make any plans
if everything's decided for me?
Sometimes God's plans for us
are even bigger than
we can imagine.
You must let your faith
guide you.
- I wish I had your faith.
- Oh, but you do.
Do you know why your father
spent so much time with you
on the Scriptures, Mary?
Because he didn't have a son
to teach them to.
No.
Because he saw
how strong your faith was.
And because he has always known
you are special.
Nothing
will change that, Mary.
Not even this young man.
Joseph. My son.
I wonder if he's cute.
Oh, nice to meet you.
Very nice to meet you, too.
So, Joachim, shall we proceed
with the ceremony?
But yes. Uh, yes, of course.
Deborah, tell Mary
we are ready.
The music. Play.
They're ready
for you, Mary.
You look beautiful.
You're going to be
so happy.
He is very handsome.
We are almost finished.
This was my mother's.
♪ Now let's pour the wine ♪
♪ And dance together ♪
♪ What they start tonight ♪
♪ Will last forever ♪
♪ If you believe ♪
♪ Then join with me ♪
♪ And celebrate ♪
♪ Oh ♪
♪ It's a brand-new life ♪
♪ A gift from heaven ♪
♪ Showing hope will rise ♪
♪ And all's forgiven ♪
♪ If you believe ♪
♪ Then join with me
and celebrate ♪
♪ Celebrate
this brand-new life. ♪
In the words of Solomon:
"Though one may be overpowered,
two can defend themselves.
But a cord of three strands
is not easily broken."
May God bind
Mary and Joseph together
till the end of their days
on this earth.
Or at least until
their wedding day.
- Thanks be to God!
Thanks be to God.
Joseph.
Hi, Mary. Oh.
I'm...
Joseph.
You?
And you.
They know each other?
- A man of many skills.
Yeah.
Uh, you're welcome.
You were also betrothed?
Uh...
Mary?
Do you need
to take a walk?
Great idea, Mother.
What?
Uh, so what exactly
do I do now?
- You go after her.
- All right. There. Okay.
To life.
To life!
- Mary.
- Please don't chase me.
I'm not. I'm not chasing you.
I just...
Okay, wow, you walk fast.
- For a girl?
- No. What? No.
For anyone who walks.
Look.
Mary, we are supposed
to be talking, okay?
We're supposed to be
getting to know each other.
- We're betrothed.
- And you spent considerable
amount of effort in
the marketplace charming a girl
who informed you
that she was betrothed.
You were charmed?
I was cornered.
Mary.
Look, I'm just friendly.
So friendly
that you forgot to mention
that you were also betrothed,
while offering
a different girl gifts.
Well, actually, it-it turns out
it was the same girl, so...
May I just point out, you...
weren't exactly unfriendly.
I was being polite
while trying to escape.
If you can walk this fast,
escaping should not
have been a problem.
Mary, they are back there
planning our wedding right now.
Yes, they are.
So what do we, Mary?
I don't know, Joseph.
My whole life,
I wanted to be a teacher.
And then one day marry someone
who I actually love.
Yeah, well, you know,
this wasn't
in my plans either, okay?
I-I'm an inventor.
I'm coming up with ideas
that could change the world,
but my father said,
"You're getting married, son,"
and that's the end of it.
I'm sorry.
Are you even hearing me
right now? Mary.
You're not the only one
that wasn't given a choice.
Yet here we are.
♪ How could I be ♪
♪ Oh so naive ♪
♪ Foolishly thinking there's
more to this life for me? ♪
♪ Two broken hearts ♪
♪ Right from the start ♪
♪ Watching the dreams that
we have as they fall apart ♪
♪ This will never work ♪
♪ Even trying feels insane ♪
♪ This will only hurt ♪
♪ Don't you feel the same? ♪
♪ I feel it, too ♪
♪ But what can I do? ♪
♪ I'm just the stranger
they say is the man for you ♪
♪ Maybe with time ♪
♪ Something will change ♪
♪ Making the best of this
might be the only way ♪
♪ Can we make this work? ♪
♪ Even trying feels insane ♪
♪ Maybe ♪
♪ When it hurts ♪
♪ We'll be worth the pain ♪
♪ There are
too many questions ♪
♪ Too little time ♪
♪ Too much to ask for
the rest of my life ♪
♪ It's a mountain
too high to climb ♪
♪ Too many voices
filling me with doubt ♪
♪ Can you hear them now? ♪
♪ It's hard to have faith ♪
♪ It's hard to believe ♪
♪ Our future holds more
than what we can see ♪
♪ We have to trust
when we don't understand ♪
♪ It could be
a part of God's plan ♪
♪ Can we ♪ Can we ♪
♪ Make this work? ♪ Make this work? ♪
♪ I know trying feels insane ♪
♪ Maybe ♪ Maybe ♪
♪ When it hurts ♪ When it hurts ♪
♪ We'll be worth the pain ♪
♪ Can we make this work? ♪
♪ Can we make this ♪
♪ Work? ♪
We should get back now.
Okay. I am Gabriel.
I'm Gabriel.
God has sent you--
No. No, no, no. Okay.
I am Gabriel.
God has sent you...
God has chosen you to bear--
to give birth--
to have a son.
Good.
Okay.
Of course.
Mary.
Just choose a fruit.
Man of many skills.
Mary!
Do not be afraid.: Deborah.
- I'm sorry I frightened you.
- Rebekah.
- Wake up. Wake up.
- They won't wake up.
Am I... am I dreaming?
You are not dreaming.
No one is talking to me right
now because I am dreaming.
- Wake up now.
- Again, not dreaming.
Am I, am I dead?
You're not dead.
Though you sleep like you are.
I'm Gabriel,
and I bring you good news.
God has chosen you
to have a son.
Th-That can't be. I don't,
I don't have a husband yet.
And this child will be
the Son of the Almighty God.
And you will name him Jesus.
And he will be called
the King of All Kings.
Impossible.
Nothing is impossible
when it is God's will.
Your cousin Elizabeth,
even in her old age,
is with child this very moment.
"Jesus"?
That's... that's the...
The promised king.
I am not
in the least bit worthy.
You are more blessed
than any other woman, Mary.
Who would...
who would believe me?
They'll think I'm crazy.
Or worse.
And-and-and Joseph.
I mean, what betrothed man
would want to hear
that his wife-to-be
is already pr... pregnant.
Rise, Mary.
You are to be the mother
to a savior and king.
You cower before no one.
Wait, wait-wait-wait-wait.
I have, I have
so many questions.
Get out!
JOACHIM [VOICE-OVER]:
This is madness.
Our minds play tricks on us
at night.
This wasn't a dream.
The angel was there.
- It was Gabriel.
- Madness.
The Son of God?
Those words alone
are dangerous.
People are stoned
for that kind of blasphemy.
Father, those are the words
the angel spoke to me.
No more talk of angels.
What if it's true?
How can it be?
Have I ever lied to any of you?
I must pray to merciful God
for guidance.
No one speaks of this
to anyone.
To anyone!
This wasn't a dream.
- What?
What are you saying?
I'm telling you the truth.
An angel came to me.
He said I would give birth
to the Son of God.
Do you even hear yourself?
Is marrying me so bad
that you had to make up a story
like this to get out of it?
I know
it sounds impossible.
It doesn't sound
impossible, Mary.
It is impossible.
What did you expect me to say,
"congratulations"?
You can say you believe me.
Joseph cannot help you.
Mary, tell them
this is just a joke.
I'm with child.
It's not like what you think,
I promise.
He won't be sullied by this.
He's a good young man.
P-Please, if I can just explain
more of what the angel said.
Oh, yes, the angel.
We won't listen
to more of this blasphemy.
I won't have it.
Let's just,
let's just take a walk.
Leave him alone.
Enough.
- You must leave.
- Joseph, please.
Get out.
Please don't come here again.
- Joseph.
Get out.
But I can care for Mary here.
No, Mary's right.
It is better
for all of us
if she goes to stay
with Elizabeth.
She will leave for Hebron
in the morning.
♪ I don't understand
the words you've spoken ♪
♪ And my heart is
still trying to believe ♪
♪ When you're looking
down on me ♪
♪ Why do you see ♪
♪ A mother to a savior
and king? ♪
♪ There's nothing in my life
I have to offer ♪
♪ Nothing in my blood
of royalty ♪
♪ I'm just a poor
and simple virgin ♪
♪ I am not ♪
♪ A mother to a savior
and king ♪
♪ I need you more than ever ♪
♪ God, can you hear me now? ♪
♪ Your stars are
full of answers ♪
♪ Hiding behind the clouds ♪
♪ Give me eyes to see ♪
♪ Just how I can be ♪
♪ Carrying your son
when I need you ♪
♪ To carry me ♪
♪ Should a miracle
feel like an anchor ♪
♪ Bringing shame upon
my family? ♪
♪ This burden is too heavy ♪
♪ I need strength to be ♪
♪ A mother to a savior
and king ♪
♪ Oh, God,
please light the shadows ♪
♪ 'Cause I can't see
where to go ♪
♪ This road
that I must travel ♪
♪ Is too dark ♪
♪ To walk alone ♪
♪ You said, "Do not fear" ♪
♪ So, Lord, if you are here ♪
♪ Help me have the faith
you have in me ♪
♪ Give me eyes to see ♪
♪ Just how I can be ♪
♪ Mother to a savior ♪
♪ When I need saving. ♪
Elizabeth.
It's true.
Are we close
to Judah yet?
We have been out here forever.
This is Judah.
What?
Why wouldn't you tell us?
We've been here for days.
We must meet the king
of this land.
He will have the scrolls
we need to find the child.
Obviously.
Then let's go.
Hey. Listen.
It's date palm season.
It happens once a year.
Melchior, we must go.
But I'm saying that I know
a place nearby where they've got
the fat, juicy ones.
- Fresh. Smell great.
- Goodness. Shame!
- They're fresh.
- Shame!
- What's the matter with you?
- You are a Magi.
You would miss
the birth of the Son of God?
Jerusalem.
I'm talking about Jerusalem.
What is in Jerusalem?
King Herod! Your scrolls!
My dates!
Now stop yelling at me!
No one is yelling at you.
You were yelling a little bit.
- Yeah. You were.
- I was not yelling.
Come on. Help me up.
No more dates for you.
Thank you.
Geez.
Ah.
I hate camels.
Not you.
But as a mode of transport.
Look at you.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Look at you
with your dead eyes.
- He's talking to camels now.
- You know, someday
there has to be a better mode
of transport other than you.
Is there no other king
available?
There has to be.
Could've just been
two wise men.
Let's go!
You're yelling again.
Zachariah still
hasn't said a word.
From the moment
he learned of my pregnancy,
he hasn't been able to speak.
Oh.
I was shocked at first.
But now I think
I may have been given
yet another gift.
Apparently his ears still work.
Elizabeth, who am I
to raise this baby?
Maybe my father is right.
This is madness.
You were chosen for reasons
that, one day, even your
father will understand.
When will I understand?
If my husband could talk,
he would say,
"Patience is
a good companion for faith."
Mary.
Why didn't Joseph bring you?
This is more than
he can accept.
I don't believe
you're meant to be alone.
Then why did God have me
promised to a man
that doesn't want to
believe me?
Why does part of me
want to believe her?
It's like I'm being
torn in two.
Joseph, it is over.
I feel like
I've done something wrong.
This is her doing,
not yours.
Joachim and I have agreed
there will be no wedding.
What?
There can't be
any other way.
Tell Joachim
I will end the engagement.
Quietly.
Your mother and I
will return home to Bethlehem.
I just don't know what to do.
You need to forget
about her, Joseph.
You are a liar.
This is blasphemy.
You should be stoned for this.
Enough.
Enough of this. Stop!
♪ Something 'bout this girl
makes me believe her ♪
♪ Even when the world
wants me to leave her ♪
♪ It's out of my control,
I can't let her go now ♪
♪ Something 'bout this girl
says she's a liar ♪
♪ She brought this on herself
with her desires ♪
♪ Your family will be stained ♪
♪ Gotta walk away now ♪
♪ Don't make concessions
for her transgressions ♪
♪ She's made a mess
A fool of you ♪
♪ I don't see deception
in her confession ♪
♪ I just see the truth ♪
♪ Don't make concessions
for her transgressions ♪
♪ She's made a mess,
a fool of you ♪
♪ I don't see deception
in her confession ♪
♪ I just see the truth ♪
♪ I'm completely torn in two ♪
♪ Half of me believes her ♪
♪ While the other
half needs proof ♪
♪ This was no
immaculate conception ♪
♪ Only just
the ultimate deception ♪
♪ Guilty to the bone ♪
♪ We should have her
stoned now ♪
Come on!♪ Wait ♪
♪ Don't you throw your stones ♪
♪ No, don't you judge her ♪
♪ I look into her eyes ♪
♪ And think I love her ♪
♪ Innocent and pure ♪
♪ How can you be sure now? ♪
♪ Ultimate deception ♪
♪ No, you've gotta let her go ♪
♪ Why can't someone
show me how? ♪
♪ Ultimate deception ♪
♪ Oh, the only thing I know ♪
♪ Is I just want to go ♪
♪ To her now ♪
Do not be afraid, Joseph.
You must believe.
Mary needs you.
Go to her now.
No.
No!
Get out!
Is everything all right, sire?
Get out.
Get out!
Shay...
Do I look, uh,
pale to you?
Yes.
I mean, I think His Highness
could use some sleep.
Wow.
Brilliant.
You are useless.
- Father.
- What?
About that.
There are some Magi here
who claim they're experts
in reading the stars.
What-what-what are Magi?
I don't know
what you're talking about.
Wise men from the East.
They are kings.
Kings.
They may be
of some use to you.
They look like circus people.
Eh.
This should be interesting.
King Herod, it is very nice
to meet you, Your Majesty...
Why are you in my lands?
We have come from far away
to worship a divine king
that is to be born
in your lands.
A star appeared to us,
one we've been searching for
our entire lives.
- A star.
- Yes.
It led us here, sire.
We believe
the time is nigh.
Which means soon.
It may also
explain your...
recent dreams, sire.
You told them about
my nightmares?
I've not heard of any queen
visiting this kingdom.
Who is the mother?
Now we believe
that he is to be born
not of a queen,
but of a humble virgin.
Where might we find this,
uh, humble mother?
We've been trying to unravel
that very mystery,
Your Magnificence.
But we are missing
certain ancient scrolls.
We need your help, sire,
to find the child.
And why would I help you
to find a new king
in my kingdom?
Eh. He's got a point, right?
Well, when you
put it that way.
Because I...
have the very thing
to get you back
sitting on your...
nightmare-inducing throne.
What are you blathering about?
I'm talking about...
myrrh.
Myrrh?
- Myrrh.
Myrrh.: Myrrh.
It-it-it sounds like
a little lamb.
Myrrh.
Not now, Melchior.
Will Your Lordship
allow me to give you a gift?
One king to another.
Please stop,
I beg of you.
Do you want your scrolls
or not?
♪ With my king-sized brain
I understand that ♪
♪ We cannot show up here
empty-handed ♪
♪ Things are given to a king
by other kings ♪
Like us!
♪ We Magi are three wise guys ♪
♪ We'll bring
the finest herbs ♪
♪ Our royal wealth can buy ♪
♪ Myrrh is the cure,
it's the treatment de jour ♪
♪ To procure some relief
from insomnia ♪
♪ With a sprinkle, a dabble ♪
♪ Your nightmares skedaddle ♪
♪ Can even cure megalomania ♪
♪ Sleep through any plight ♪
♪ With just one dose at night ♪
♪ Thanks to myrrh ♪
♪ If you've got an affliction
and money to spend ♪
♪ Myrrh is your
new best friend ♪
Oh, no, no.
♪ Such a mighty king ♪
♪ Should not be bothered ♪
♪ With the myrrh he brings,
there's something stronger ♪
♪ Please allow us to proceed,
Your Majesty ♪
Eh.
♪ We Magi are three wise guys ♪
♪ We bring the best
essential oils we can buy ♪
♪ Frankincense
is all you need ♪
♪ If you need to decrease
daily stress or anxiety ♪
♪ And with one application,
reduce inflammation ♪
♪ It's all the rage
in Roman therapy ♪
♪ You will be impressed
with all the benefits ♪
♪ Of frankincense ♪
♪ If you've got an affliction
and money to spend ♪
♪ Frankincense
makes more sense ♪
My library is at your disposal.
- Thank you, sire.
- Thank you.
You know,
you're really lovely.
Allow me to show
my gratitude.
Please, open it.
♪ Gold ♪
♪ Gold is the only thing ♪
♪ Worthy for royalty ♪
We'll find her.
And when the time comes,
we will worship the child together.
Like a kings' thing, yeah?
But of course.
♪ We'll map out a course,
all together, of course ♪
♪ And then search
the whole land for divinity ♪
♪ We have other mothers,
but we've become brothers ♪
♪ While following
this ancient prophecy ♪
♪ Melchior ♪ Gaspar ♪
♪ And even Balthazar ♪
♪ Will follow that star ♪
♪ 'Cause where there's a king
that needs worshipping ♪
♪ You'll find
three wise guys ♪
♪ He'll reign forever
and ever ♪
♪ He will reign forever ♪
♪ And ever ♪
♪ On high... ♪
♪ Over three wise guys ♪
♪ Hey. ♪
Hey.
Perhaps we should go.
- My thoughts exactly.
- Where is the exit?
Is it this way?
Okay, enough.
Balthazar. Come on. Come on!
Rome cannot hear about
this other king.
I want the mother found.
I'll send spies
to every village.
Yeah.
It should not be difficult
to locate an unwed peasant girl
claiming to carry the child
of a Hebrew God.
Yeah, it shouldn't be,
so find her!
I'm gonna take a nap.
What beautiful flowers.
Seems you have the magic touch.
-  It's me.
- What are you doing here?
Those men are looking for you.
What are you talking about?
I had a dream,
I had a nightmare,
and those soldiers
were in my dream.
One does not often
see a woman of your... years
ready to give birth.
Yes.
What was God thinking?
Is this your husband?
Yes, but I'm afraid
my husband is mute.
Look at me.
This isn't safe.
It is not every day
that a prince of Judea
visits us, sire.
To what do we owe this honor?
I've heard from reliable
sources in Hebron
that a certain young woman
with child
might be living on this farm.
We've been searching
for her for weeks.
As you can see, sire,
whoever told you that
must be blind.
No, the woman I seek
is unmarried and much younger.
She's in no danger.
You don't mind
if we have a look around?
Of course.
You're our guest.
You live quite modestly.
God has blessed us,
for which we are grateful.
Just trust me.
There's no need to be nervous.
Is there?
If you do see
this young woman...
...you will report it.
Then my father, King Herod,
will bless you.
Your generosity is appreciated.
Mary.
You're welcome.
Joseph, my betrothed.
So you're here
because of a dream?
Yes.
No. Uh...
Mary, I'm here because
I'm supposed to be with you.
I should have never let you go.
You owe me nothing.
Please, Mary.
Come back to Nazareth with me.
You heard him.
He said he was looking for
a young, unwed pregnant woman.
Listen to Joseph, Mary.
He was a royal.
A son of King Herod.
Those exact soldiers
were in my dream.
That's no coincidence.
You are in danger, Mary.
Herod must know
of the prophecy.
He wants my child.
We're getting married.
Great. Great, yes.
Um, yes. I...
We will go to Nazareth
in the morning
to make arrangements,
and I...
I will claim this child
as my own.
No, we're getting married
right here.
Today.
Uh, well...
What about our fathers?
They called off the wedding.
What about our mothers?
They would...
they would want to be here.
We can't wait, Joseph.
When I'm married,
my child is safe.
Will you marry me, Joseph?
I do.
I will. Yes.
Of course. Yes. Um...
Who's gonna marry us?
A priest.
Stop.
Stop being such an a...
♪ Can we become we? ♪
♪ No longer known as just
you and me ♪
♪ Two separate lives now
in unity ♪
♪ Stuck here together ♪
♪ But will this always be
just an arrangement? ♪
♪ Can we become more ♪JOSEPH: ♪ We're more ♪
♪ Than half of a union ♪ Union ♪
♪ We're chosen for ♪
♪ Where I am your best half ♪
♪ And I am yours ♪
♪ Stuck here forever ♪
♪ And hopefully not ending
in estrangement ♪
♪ It's the step of faith ♪
♪ We have to take sometimes ♪
♪ If I'm with you ♪
♪ I can take it ♪
♪ But if we are one ♪
♪ What happens to you and I? ♪
♪ If I'm with you ♪
♪ I will make it ♪
♪ Will this always be
just an arrangement? ♪
♪ We'll find out in time
if we don't break it ♪
♪ Can mine become yours ♪
♪ Combining our dreams
without keeping score? ♪
♪ Always together
but never bored ♪
♪ No choice in the matter ♪
♪ But this will never work
without each other ♪
♪ Can we become we? ♪ Can we become we? ♪
♪ Start a new line
on this family tree ♪
♪ Two hearts connected
by one beat ♪
♪ Your hand in my mine and ♪
♪ I could never choose
to love another ♪
♪ Maybe one day I could learn
to love you, too. ♪
You have been here
a very long time.
Are you no closer to learning
where this king will be born?
We are patient men.
My father is not.
You seem... tense.
Have some wine.
I do not need wine.
I need answers.
I don't understand
your obsession
with this peasant and her baby.
You are rich kings.
What we seek cannot be
purchased with riches.
Then what do you seek?
- Wisdom.
- Truth.
And the very meaning
of life.
What meaning is there
in groveling to a peasant baby?
You are meant to be worshipped,
not to worship others.
The meaning of life comes not
from what others do for us,
but what we do for others.
King or peasant, we will
all one day bend the knee.
What could this child
possibly offer
that my father
does not already have?
Well, how about...
I don't know,
a good night's sleep?
My father wants
the mother found!
We'll do our best.
That was my favorite vintage.
Are you certain the child
will be born in Bethlehem?
Oh, goodness,
I'm quite certain.
Well, clearly, we must find
the mother before they do.
The Magi are gone.
They must have left
in the night.
What do you mean they're gone?
I have reports of them
heading toward Bethlehem.
That must be
where the mother is.
I will go after them.
I-I thought
you scoured Bethlehem.
No one matching
her description was there.
Well...
then...
take your men back to Bethlehem
and-and kill
every pregnant woman
and baby you find.
Problem solved.
Father.
No.
I...
We cannot do that.
Why not?
What if...
all of Judea
revolts against you?
Rome may question your sanity.
My sanity.
My sanity is why I need
to rid myself
of these nightmares.
There is another way, Father.
Well?
Then tell me, my son.
What would you do
if you were king?
Use Rome to your advantage.
If Caesar wants a census,
give it to him.
Continue!
A census allows for your
soldiers to search every home
and count every head,
all in the name of Caesar.
The woman will be found.
And Rome will be appeased.
Order the census.
But if you don't find her,
kill them all.
Show me you can be a true king.
You are no different
than me, boy.
My blood runs
through your veins.
♪ When I was a boy ♪
♪ You were like a god
I worshipped ♪
♪ Father ♪
♪ I could hear your voice ♪
♪ Echo in the halls
like thunder ♪
♪ Father ♪
♪ On a mission to prove
I was worthy of approval ♪
♪ From you, Father ♪
♪ I've been brave, feared
and fearless ♪
♪ Ruthless and relentless ♪
♪ Just like you ♪
♪ So ♪
♪ Am I just like you? ♪
♪ No! ♪
♪ What kind of king
is in my blood? ♪
♪ I don't know ♪
♪ What kind of man
have I become? ♪
♪ I am stuck
with this darkness ♪
♪ That runs through my veins ♪
♪ Am I a prisoner
or can I change ♪
♪ What ♪
♪ What I've become ♪
♪ When it's in my blood? ♪ Blood ♪
♪ My blood ♪ Blood ♪
♪ When it's in my blood ♪
♪ Blood ♪
♪ My blood ♪ Blood ♪
♪ When it's in my blood ♪
♪ Never been anything
but your loyal son ♪
♪ Been a good soldier,
followed your orders ♪
♪ Never questioning you once ♪
♪ You're all I wanted to be
but now it's all unraveling ♪
♪ There's blood on my hands,
don't know if I am a monster ♪
♪ Or the son of a king ♪
♪ Just like you ♪
♪ No! ♪
♪ What kind of king
is in my blood? ♪
♪ I don't know ♪
♪ What kind of man
have I become? ♪
♪ I am stuck
with this darkness ♪
♪ That runs through my veins ♪
♪ Am I a prisoner
or can I change ♪
♪ What ♪
♪ What I've become ♪
♪ When it's in my blood? ♪
♪ Blood ♪
♪ My blood ♪ Blood ♪
♪ When it's in my ♪
♪ Blood... ♪
♪ When it's in my blood. ♪
MARY [VOICE-OVER]:
You know, you made
a really big mistake.
I have? What?
Well, now that I know
you can cook...
...I'll expect it every day.
Well...
that's only if you want
the same stew every day.
It's a start.
I think even Fig is beginning
to tolerate you.
Wow.
Must be really good stew.
Open up!
Whoa. E-Excuse me. Who are you?
I'm here by order of Caesar
for the census.
Name.
I am Joseph, son of Jacob.
Place of birth.
Nazareth?
I'm from Bethlehem.
Then by order of Caesar,
you and your family
must travel to Bethlehem
and be counted.
Immediately.
Sir, my wife is with child.
As you can see, she is in no
condition to travel that far.
There are no exceptions.
She is a Nazarene. Surely,
she can stay with her mother
this close to giving birth.
Your wife goes with you
to Bethlehem
or she will give birth
in a dungeon.
No.
No. Please.
Of course, we will leave
first thing in the morning.
We will be back
to make sure of it.
All right, move on.
To the next one.
Bethlehem is more
than a week's journey.
I don't know
if you can do this.
I'll be okay.
You heard him, Joseph.
We have to go.
I will make preparations.
That's the way
into Bethlehem.
Stay here.
Step up. You, step up.
Hurry up.
- What is it? What did you see?
- He's here.
Herod's son.
This isn't safe, Joseph.
It's probably just the census.
We're married now.
I think it'll be okay.
No. It's me they're
looking for, I know it.
What is it?
- What?
- We have to hurry.
I can't have
the baby here, Joseph.
Bethlehem isn't safe.
Joseph... We can't go back.
Mary, I'm sorry.
I promised to protect you,
and I failed you
in every possible way.
Joseph!
I'm not the only one
who was chosen for this.
I know another way in.
I'll get you to my mother.
She will help us.
Fig.
Come on.
Our wait is over.
Tonight is the night, gentlemen.
Yes. Finally.
Oh, goodness.
No, no, no, no, no.
My clothes
smell of sheep dung.
My skin
smells of sheep dung.
This whole earth
is made of sheep dung.
And tonight,
I meet the Son of God.
This is just perfect.
We must ready ourselves.
Oh, hello.
Son of God,
let me introduce myself.
I am the King of Sheep Dung.
Yes, I have a few
hygiene issues right now.
Nice to meet you.
That tunnel's the only way in.
- What are you doing?
- I'm creating a distraction.
What are you doing?
Creating a distraction.
Mary. Mary.
That's...
Uh...
Oh.
Now's our chance. Let's go.
Wait, wait. What about Fig?
He won't fit.
Don't worry. He'll find me.
He always does.
Let me make sure it's safe.
We can't go to my parents.
- What?
- There's more soldiers.
Joseph, we have to hurry.
- Okay. Stay here.
- Joseph, wait.
Jo... Joseph.
I'm asking you
if you could find it
in the kindness in your heart
to please just provide...
No. Sorry, I cannot....a safe place for us
to stay tonight.
We'd be out...
Hey, you!
Wait.
You! Stop!
No, no, no. Sorry.
We have no room.
Hey!
Thank you, Fig.
What happened?
Fig found me.
Good boy.
Let's go.
I found an old barn.
♪ Silent night ♪
♪ Holy night ♪
♪ All is calm ♪
♪ All is bright ♪
♪ Round yon virgin ♪
♪ Mother and child ♪
♪ Holy infant ♪
♪ So tender and mild ♪
♪ Jesus Lord, at thy birth ♪
♪ Jesus Lord,
at thy birth. ♪
Behold.
They shall call him Emmanuel.
"God with us."
♪ Fall on your knees ♪
♪ Fall
on your knees ♪
♪ O hear the angel voices ♪
♪ O night divine ♪
♪ O night ♪ O night ♪
♪ When Christ was born ♪
♪ When Christ
was born ♪
♪ O night divine ♪ Divine ♪
♪ O night ♪
♪ O night divine. ♪
♪ Now I understand
the words you told me ♪
♪ I'm holding all the answers
in my arms ♪
♪ Looking down upon
this brand-new life ♪
♪ I see Emmanuel ♪
♪ Our savior and king ♪
♪ Fall on your knees ♪
♪ O hear the angel voices ♪
♪ And hear ♪
♪ The angel voices ♪
♪ Thine is the kingdom ♪
♪ Thine is the power ♪
♪ Thine is the glory ♪
♪ Forever ♪
♪ More. ♪
Joseph.
What do you want?
We have no quarrel
with you, sire.
I want to talk.
You leave her alone.
Who is the father?
I am.
No, you're not.
It seems you found your king.
The child is no threat
to your father.
My father would heartily disagree.
GABRIEL [VOICE-OVER, ECHOING]:
You cower before no one.
So you are the one
who's caused so much trouble.
And this child is
the new king of Judea?
He hasn't come
for your father's throne.
What kind of king
does not want a throne
and is born in a place
like this?
One who has come
to save the lost.
Am I lost?
"Like sheep we have
all gone astray.
And God has put on him..."
"...the punishment for all
the evil we have done."
Yes, I know
your Scriptures as well.
So, you truly believe
that this child...
...born in this filth...
is the chosen one?
A king.
I believe you know
exactly who he is.
I envy your faith.
Faith is trusting what you know
in your heart to be true.
Well done, sire.
You found them.
Yes, I did.
Do we seize them
or end them now?
You have your faith,
but I have my orders.
You have a choice.
You are not your father.
Sire?
Please.
Men.
- Please.
Sire?
You will give them
safe passage.
What?
They are now
under my protection.
The king's orders
were clear.
These people are no threat
to a true king.
Sire.
You heard me.
Leave us.
Yes.
Of course.
You must leave Judea at once.
When my father hears of this,
I cannot protect you.
Thank you.
What is his name?
Jesus.
I always knew I liked him.
He came.
He saw. He went.
- And so should we.
You heard the man.
Gather your things.
Did you hear him say "Judea"?
What's this Judea business?
It's Judah.
I had another dream.
We have to get to Egypt.
Ugar is over there.
You come down to Nagur.
Ha, ha, ha.
From Ugar you go
to Beinangnin...
MARY [VOICE-OVER]:
So the family
prepared to travel to Egypt,
knowing they would not
be safe at home
as long as Herod was alive.
Oh, Judah's there.
- Yes. Yes.
Yeah.
So you are in... Why don't I just take...
Why don't... Yeah.
MARY [VOICE-OVER]:
But first, the Magi
had gifts to present.
Gifts that would be very useful
for the journey ahead.
Please accept this gold
for food and shelter.
You are too generous, sir.
This resin of frankincense
will soothe the baby
during your travels.
It smells wonderful.
And this is myrrh.
It does everything else.
Wh...
But, really,
what does myrrh actually do?
It does everything.
You-you cannot quantify
what one amount of myrrh does.
Goodness, please stop
with the myrrh.
- Nobody cares about myrrh.
- What are you saying?
Just because you're jealous
because you gave them
a basic gift, and I gave them
something to talk about,
multifaceted...
You're welcome.
MARY [VOICE-OVER]:
And as her new family
made their way,
she knew that her mother
had been right.
God's plans for her were bigger
than she could have
ever imagined.
JOSEPH [VOICE-OVER]:
Wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait.
That is not how I remember it.
I kissed you first.
That is the story
of how you came to us.
Time for your Scripture lesson.
- And then it's off to bed.
- Okay.
♪ It's a brand-new life ♪
♪ A gift from heaven ♪
♪ Showing hope will rise
and all's forgiven ♪
♪ If you believe ♪
♪ Then join with me
and celebrate ♪
♪ Celebrate
this brand-new life ♪
♪ I never knew a star
could shine so bright ♪
♪ I never saw the sky
so full of light ♪
♪ I never felt my heart
could ever be like this ♪
♪ So wild and so free ♪
♪ I know a miracle's
happening ♪
♪ 'Cause I hear a choir
of angels sing ♪
♪ Hallelujah ♪
♪ So let's pour the wine
and dance together ♪
♪ What we start tonight
will last forever ♪
♪ If you believe
then join with me ♪
♪ And celebrate ♪ Celebrate ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh ♪
♪ It's a brand-new life ♪
♪ A gift from heaven ♪
♪ Showing hope will rise
and all's forgiven ♪
♪ If you believe
then join with me ♪
♪ And celebrate ♪ Celebrate ♪
♪ Celebrate
this brand-new life ♪
♪ All of creation
on a silent night ♪
♪ Is being covered
in a holy light ♪
♪ Now nothing looks the same ♪
♪ The sound of Jesus' name ♪
♪ Brings me to my knees ♪
♪ A new life,
a true life's awakening ♪
♪ It's calling,
and so I am answering ♪
♪ Hallelujah ♪
♪ Now let's pour the wine
and dance together ♪
♪ What we start tonight ♪
♪ Will last forever ♪ Will last forever ♪
♪ If you believe ♪
♪ Then join with me ♪ Yeah ♪
♪ And celebrate ♪ Celebrate ♪
♪ Whoa-oh-oh-oh ♪
♪ It's a brand-new life ♪
♪ A gift from heaven ♪ A gift from heaven ♪
♪ Showing hope will rise ♪
♪ And all's forgiven ♪ And all's forgiven ♪
♪ If you believe ♪ If you believe ♪
♪ Then join with me ♪
♪ And celebrate ♪ Celebrate ♪
♪ Celebrate
this brand-new life ♪
♪ Hallelujah ♪
♪ Celebrate
this brand-new life ♪
♪ Hallelujah. ♪
♪ Go, tell it on the mountain ♪
♪ Over the hills
and everywhere ♪
♪ Go, tell it on the mountain ♪
♪ That Jesus Christ is born ♪
♪ The shepherds feared
and trembled ♪
♪ When, lo, above the Earth ♪
♪ Rung out the angels' chorus ♪
♪ That hailed
our Savior's birth ♪
♪ Oh ♪
♪ Go, tell it on the mountain ♪
♪ Over the hills
and everywhere ♪
♪ Go, tell it on the mountain ♪
♪ That Jesus Christ is born ♪
♪ Oh, he's born ♪
♪ Down in a lowly manger ♪
♪ The humble Christ was born ♪
♪ And God sent us salvation ♪
♪ That blessed Christmas morn ♪
♪ Go, tell it on the mountain ♪
♪ Over the hills
and everywhere ♪
♪ Go, tell it on the mountain ♪
♪ That Jesus Christ is born ♪
♪ Over the hills
and everywhere ♪
♪ Go, tell it on the mountain ♪
♪ That Jesus Christ is born ♪
♪ That Jesus Christ is born. ♪